# Accurate-diagnosis-of-liver-diseases-through-the-application-of-deep-convolutional-neural-network-on
Neural Network

Accurate detection of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) through biopsies is challenging. Manual detection of the disease is not only prone to human error but is also time-consuming. Using artificial intelligence and deep learning, we have successfully demonstrated the issues of the manual detection of liver diseases with a high degree of precision. This article uses various neural network-based techniques to assess non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. In this investigation, more than five thousand biopsy images were employed alongside the latest versions of the algorithms. To detect prominent characteristics in the liver from a collection of Biopsy pictures, we employed the YOLOv3, Faster R-CNN, YOLOv4, YOLOv5, YOLOv6, YOLOv7, YOLOv8, and SSD models. A highlighting point of this paper is comparing the state-of-the-art Instance Segmentation models, including Mask R-CNN, U-Net, YOLOv5 Instance Segmentation, YOLOv7 Instance Segmentation, and YOLOv8 Instance Segmentation. The extent of severity of NAFLD and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis was examined for liver cell ballooning, steatosis, lobular, and periportal inflammation, and fibrosis. Metrics used to evaluate the algorithms' effectiveness include accuracy, precision, specificity, and recall. Improved metrics are achieved by optimizing the hyperparameters of the associated models. Additionally, the liver is scored in order to analyse the information gleaned from biopsy images. Statistical analyses are performed to establish the statistical relevance in evaluating the score for different zones.
